>> Jon Kuperman: Why
master Chrome DevTools?
I was thinking about this as my pitch for
why to take this course, or
why I've been so obsessed with
these tools throughout my career.
And I think I've kind of broken
it down into three categories.
One of them is the idea of
becoming a web performance expert.
So I think forever,
in the past and in the future,
squeezing out more performance from your
application is always incredibly valuable.
So I think it can be something
that differentiates you on a team,
being somebody who is really
invested in performance and
can help make the app faster.
I also think it can help differentiate
your company, if you have, say, a startup,
being a faster, better working version
of an app can be really powerful.
And we'll go into a little bit of
Google's studies on performance and
how much kind of it can affect the bottom
line of different types of businesses.
Maybe my favorite reason that I love the
tools is to quickly become the one on your
team that fixes or
digs into really complicated bugs.
So I think we've all been there where
we've had some bug report comes in.
And it's hard to reproduce or it can only
be reproduced in a very certain state and
you put some logging in and it's not
really triggering the way you want.
At a certain point,
you'll need tooling to be able to better
understand your application itself.
And I think that Chrome DevTools
offers a lot of that.
We'll get into today with CPU and
memory profiling or
step through debugging, being able
to walk up and down call stacks.
And really understand your application,
even being able to understand why the UI
changes without even knowing where
in the source code that comes from.
So there's all sorts of cool things that
the DevTools can give you that can kind of
make you the person on the team to reach
out and say, hey, I'll take that one,
I can go ahead and
look at that and fix that bug.
And the third thing is just being able to
prototype quickly, whether that's in HTML
and CSS with the kind of element view,
and being able to quickly build a new UI.
Or whether it's with the console, and
being able to kind of hop quickly
grab an HTML element from the DOM and
do some operations on it and
see in real time how it goes.
Alternatively, just in the sources tab,
being able to make quick edits to your
JavaScript right there, can I think
really help you get a prototype of
something really, really quick,
and I think that's very valuable.
So the first point, the performance thing.
Google over the years has sort of led
the way with a lot of these doing out in
the open performance audits.
Trying to really get to the bottom of,
does performance matter?
And if so, how much does it matter?
How can we quantify it and kind of
leveraging that in order to help them get
budget to build out
their own amazing tools.
So for those that have seen Google
PageSpeed Insights, or Google Lighthouse,
or the DevTools themselves,
Google has invested in all of these tools.
And the reason why is because when they
work with their partner companies,
they really do find that squeezing out
performance from your application can
make a huge difference to the bottom line.
So for those that are not familiar,
there's this really great website,
web.dev, that's maintained by Google, but
it has contributions from
all over the Internet.
And they've got all these really amazing
studies and they keep publishing them,
they keep them up-to-date.
So, here was one that
they did with Renault,
this is one of their partner applications.
And they essentially worked
on one of their metrics,
which we'll get into in a little bit,
Largest Contentful Paint.
And they basically released all of these
different versions of the website where
they were working on optimizing the render
to be faster and faster and faster.
And at the same time, they used
an analytics engine to look at conversion
rate from this particular page,
that was like signing people up.
And they found this really, really
dramatic relationship, where, essentially,
the faster they could get the rendering,
which is on the x-axis to the left.
If the Largest Contentful Paint
was 0.2 seconds to 0.4 seconds,
then they had extremely
high conversion rates.
It's like 35% plus,
which is incredible for a marketing site.
And as they would tweak it and release
these AB tests with slower and slower,
Largest Contentful Paint,
the conversion rate dropped all the way
down to maybe 16% something like that.
So this is a simple example of a form,
because it's simple to measure and
things like that.
But you can really think about it for
your application that,
if the difference between a kind of fast
and a really fast page could be something
like 15% conversions on whatever
it is that you're working on.
Similarly, they did a bunch of
aggregate analysis of retail sites and
travel sites and found things like, well,
what if we could improve the full
load by 0.1 seconds, basically.
Something that would seem kinda small.
And then took a look at conversion
rates again, and on these retail sites,
such a small improvement led to 8.4%
increase, with retail sales, and for
travel sites, a 10.1% increase.
And there's a link here, they speculate
on a lot of different reasons that people
often give up on certain shopping
journeys when things are taking too long.
Meanwhile, if they're really, really fast,
you're more encouraged to kind of
ride that high to the checkout.
There's all sorts of reasons for it, but
it is really interesting making the case
that I think we have this tendency to be
like, well, the site's fast enough, or
something like that.
But the reality is that speeding it up
can have dramatic effects on your company
as a whole.
Another thing to kind of
always keep in mind, I think,
one of the traps of web
performance is falling into,
if you're in a country where you
have access to fiber speed Internet.
And you're on a brand new MacBook Pro or
really, really powerful Windows laptop.
And so you've got this incredibly fast
connection, a great CPU, great memory, and
the website loads really fast for you.
And it's like, okay, that's great.
But if you're trying to reach into
emerging markets, I think it's really
important to get benchmarks on how your
site performs on average network speeds,
average devices.
This is especially true for phones,
but it's true for laptops as well.
So I think a lot of big
companies will do kind of,
I remember when I worked at Twitter,
we used to throttle the network
the first Tuesday of the month or
something like that.
As a forcing function to gain empathy, for
what it's when you're not on
this hyper-fast fiber network.
And it led to a bunch of really cool
initiatives basically trying to
make the site faster.
So, a lot to kind of think about there,
but the ultimate takeaway is that,
I think, performances,
obviously it's important, but
I think it's maybe even more
important than we give it credit for.
It can really affect
the success of your company.
Another thing to consider with with speed
in general, is that many years ago,
Google and now almost all search engines
have made the public decision to take
speed into account for search ranking.
So truly, you can kind of tick off
all of your SEO checklist, but
if your site's slower
than your competitors,
there's a really good chance that
they'll be ranked above yours.
So if you're in any kind of company
that relies on this kind of
organic search traffic, speed can also be
not only important for conversions, but
really important for
actually getting seen in the first place.